0000-Hold_Rewards_for_Denylist_Hotspots (#551)
helium/HIP: 0076-Hold_Rewards_for_Denylist_Hotspots.md

Helium Improvement Proposal (HIP) Title: Temporarily Holding Rewards for Denied List Hotspots

Authors:
- Rob#8633
- H3ct0R
- ChatGPT

## Introduction:

> The Helium network is a decentralized network that relies on hotspots to create and maintain the network. However, in some cases, the rewards of some hotspots may be denied due to potential fraudulent activity. While it is important to prevent fraud, it may also result in the unfair denial of rewards to legitimate hotspots.

Reviewer: this section feels very ChatGPT and is a bit redundant. How does something like this sound?

```suggestion
The Helium Network relies on Proof of Coverage to verify that Hotspots accurately represent their location and installation configuration. Hotspots deemed to be partaking in fraudulent activity by misrepresenting the Hotspot's coverage may be added to the Denylist, resulting in the denial of Proof of Coverage related rewards. While it is essential to prevent fraud, it may also result in the unfair denial of rewards to legitimate Hotspots.
```

## Proposal:
To address this issue, this HIP proposes a temporary holding of rewards for hotspots that have been placed on the denied list. The rewards would be held until a review and appeal process is completed. If the hotspot is deemed to be legitimate, the rewards would be returned to the hotspot owner.

> 

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that the pool of rewards are therefore not going to active hotspots on the network? Just on the surface, this looks like it would negatively impact all hotspots that are not on the denylist by limiting the pool of mining rewards that go to active and honest hotspots.

Author: I would think maybe it gets held for a period of time, maybe 60 days or something until the denylist hotspot owner has had chance to appeal the decision. After this the held funds if no appeal is granted could then be either burnt or donated to charity, or just evenly shared amongst legitimate online hotspots during this time as some form of "we caught some gamers bonus".

Reviewer: Before rewards can be held in a reserve like this, they have to come from somewhere and be accounted for. 

The current pool of all rewards is [distributed across the network in defined buckets](https://docs.helium.com/blockchain/mining#hnt-distributions-per-epoch) so any additional portions would need to come from one of those existing buckets. Do you have a particular bucket in mind?

Reviewer 3: Make a denylist submission put a staked bond of 5 HNT.  If you are found legit, you get it back.  If you are still found to be a gamer, you forfeited the 5 HNT.

## Implementation:

> 1. A review and appeal process will be established to allow hotspot owners to challenge their denied rewards.

Reviewer 2: We already have the denylist review and appeal process at Crowdspot.io. Can you add into your HIP how this would build on top of Crowdspot and the processes we already have in place to solve #1 (listed here).

> 2. The rewards for denied hotspots will be temporarily held in a secure escrow account.

Reviewer 2: Who will hold this account? Foundation? or the subDAO?

Author: I think it's too early to say, because we don't know how Oracles will work. But ideally it would be something automatically handled in some decentralise way so no one person can just run off with the HNT.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to connect with some of the folks implementing oracles. Check this #core-dev or #blockchain channels in Discord and find a Core Dev who's working on it to talk to.

3. The review and appeal process will be conducted by a panel of experts in the Helium community.

> 4. The panel will review the evidence presented by the hotspot owner and make a determination on the legitimacy of the hotspot.

Reviewer 2: There is already a group of volunteers who are trained in denylist removal and appeals. I would make sure you're building on the current processes in place and if you're looking to change the processes, be clear why the current ones are not working today.

Author: I think this was down to one of the other author's I'll ask it to rewrite this part. (ChatGPT)

5. If the hotspot is deemed to be legitimate, the rewards will be returned to the hotspot owner.

## Conclusion:

> This HIP aims to prevent the unfair denial of rewards to legitimate hotspots while also maintaining the integrity of the Helium network. By temporarily holding the rewards until a review and appeal process is completed, we can ensure that the network is protected against fraud while also ensuring that the rewards are fairly distributed to those who have contributed to the network.

Reviewer 2: There might be another issue here...when a hotspot is added to the denylist they are no longer participating in POC, which means they are not beaconing or witnessing. So how would they continue to get rewarded if they're not participating in POC? Your proposal might be asking to fundamentally change the denylist. I think this needs to be fleshed out a bit more. You might want to run this idea by folks in the community on these channels, or we can put you in contact with an expert on the denylist so that you can get more support or ask questions:

1. #crowdspot https://discord.com/channels/404106811252408320/984427647977283674
2. #hip-discuss https://discord.com/channels/404106811252408320/730243559873052754
3. #questions-and-answers https://discord.com/channels/404106811252408320/730272677104713791
